Previously on
The Event...
The sooner we find
the weapon and use it,
the sooner
our people will be safe.
What the hell
happened to them?
- The virus was alive.
- It was the flu--
Spanish flu.
The lungs are missing.
Where are they?
Must be on the way
to the airport.
With a courier named Alex.
Flight 38, Aero Moscow.
Is this your idea
of loyalty?
I'll never go along
with genocide.
If you aren't with us,
then you're against us.
Take him.
She made a call
through the outside.
She called 911!
No, Luis,
it's all right.
Leila,
you are not one of them.
We're your people now.
Follow my instructions,
and by this time tomorrow,
you'll be leader
of the free world.
Are you all right,
Mr. President?
The President
has suffered a stroke.
Jarvis
may be responsible
for what's happened
to the President.
You have to help me
stop this succession.
To take him down,
you would need
irrefutable proof.
It's gotta be the coffee.
The packet
must've contained the poison.
We'll need more
than surveillance footage
to convince the rest of
the President's Cabinet
of any wrongdoing.
If there are no objections,
I'll commence the vote
to appoint Raymond Jarvis
as acting President.
Elias. Help!
Ladies and gentlemen,
can I have your attention?
- Chief Justice.
- Mr. Vice President.
Are you ready
to be sworn in?
I'm ready.
Please place
your left hand on the Bible.
Raise your right hand
and repeat after me.
- Pupil's blown on left.
- Bp dropping. 80 over 40.
- 10 of mannitol.
- What's happening to him?
He's showing signs of
elevated pressure in his brain.
- HR 42 and dropping.
- Where the hell is neurosurge?
He's losing his gag reflex.
Elias!
Ma'am, wait outside.
I, state your name...
I, Raymond Theodore Jarvis...
Do solemnly affirm
that I will
faithfully execute
the office of the President
of the United States.
Do solemnly affirm
that I will
faithfully execute
the office of the President
of the United States.
Ventricular occlusion.
We need to drain.
Mark it
at 5 1/2 centimeters
above the C-1 vertebrae.
Drill.
Prep the endoscope.
I'm going through
the fourth ventricle.
And will,
to the best of my ability,
preserve,
protect, and defend
the constitution
of the United States.
- Ventricular catheter?
- In.
No CSF flow.
Must be kinked.
The catheter's open
and flushes well.
There's no fluid.
There's nothing there.
What's happening?
ICP increasing.
That's not possible.
There's no CSF.
V-tach! We lost the pulse!
We lost the pulse!
And to the best
of my ability,
I will preserve,
protect, and defend
the constitution
of the United States.
- So help me God.
Mr. President.
Thank you,
Chief Justice.
♪ The Event 1x19 ♪
Us or Them
Original Air Date on May 2, 2011
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Clear!
- No response.
- Going again. Clear!
Another mg of epi.
Chase it with lido.
Going again. Clear!
Wait. We got a pulse.
Doctor...
Pupils fixed and dilated.
Let's do Q 5 neuro checks.
What's his EEG look like?
Wave amplitude
is diminished
and markedly flattened.
He's lapsed into a coma.
This is the scene
outside Bethesda Hospital today,
as Americans
pray and leave flowers
for their fallen leader,
President Elias Martinez.
The White House confirmed
that Martinez
slipped into a coma
as the result of what
his doctors are describing
as a severe stroke.
Shortly thereafter,
Vice President Raymond Jarvis
was sworn in as acting President
of the United States.
He takes the reins
of a country
still reeling from
the first terrorist attack
to take place
on its soil since 9/11--
the destruction
of the Washington Monument.
I heard you need
to be fed and watered.
What happened
to President Martinez?
Quiet.
It's not a coincidence.
Sophia did this,
didn't she?
It's a disgrace.
Martinez was a good man.
Sophia takes no pleasure
in doing this.
She's doing what she has to
to save us.
Yeah,
by committing genocide.
We need to make room.
You need to look at
how she's changed.
Killing her former friends,
turning against her own.
How do you know
you won't be next?
- I'm not a traitor.
- No, you're worse.
You're just blindly
following her.
A sheep.
Shut up.
- A coward.
- I said shut up!
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Accept the inevitable.
The native population
is done.
They don't have a chance.
Don't underestimate them.
Man, you're
behind the times, man.
They've all but surrendered.
Sophia's calling the shots
with the White House now.
What are you
talking about?
Before we begin,
I'd like to acknowledge
the tragedy
that has befallen us.
As we sit here,
Elias Martinez
is fighting for his life.
In the short time
he was President,
he made an indelible mark.
And I serve
in the shadow of the honesty
and integrity
that exemplified his term.
Now to the business at hand.
We are at war,
ladies and gentlemen,
and the time has come
for us to be realistic
about our enemy.
Fact--Sophia and her people
have unbridled power,
weapons they are willing
to use against us
that we don't even understand
and cannot defend against.
The truth is,
if we want to survive,
a radical change in strategy
is called for.
Meaning what?
Meaning we are going to open
diplomatic channels with Sophia
and begin negotiating
a peace.
What?
Sir, don't you think
we're a little past
the point of negotiation?
I don't.
If we wanna bring them
to the table,
we have to show
good faith,
we have to stop
hounding them
and stop treating them
like an enemy.
Effective immediately,
all military
and intelligence personnel
who have been pursuing
Sophia and her people
will cease and desist.
You can't be serious.
We still have no idea
what they may be planning.
And whose fault is that?
This is our new policy--
letting them
live in peace...
So that we
may do the same.
Makes me sick seeing him
at the head of that table.
He's all but murdered
the President,
and now he's destroying
any chance we have
of recapturing Sophia.
I know you believe
Jarvis poisoned Martinez,
but without evidence,
we can't act on that knowledge.
I may have it.
What do you mean?
After the Cabinet meeting
last night,
I noticed some
of Martinez's coffee
had spilled
onto my shirt cuff.
Enough to analyze?
Yeah, I sent it off
to the lab this morning.
If the tox screen
comes back positive,
we can start to build a case
against Jarvis.
Let's hope it does.
Until then, let's not forget
he's acting President.
It's our sworn duty
to follow his orders.
We have to stand down
against Sophia.
And who's watching
Simon now?
Jason and Cameron.
I'm going back there now.
I just wanted to tell you
what he did myself.
I'll deal with it.
Aaron, please tell me
things are progressing well
on your end.
They are.
Our tests confirmed
that the body we excavated
is still rife
with the strain of the virus.
- Good.
- There was a complication.
The men we hired to dissect
the lungs from the body,
they were
accidentally exposed.
Everyone on the ship died
within several hours.
This strain works
even more quickly
than we'd anticipated.
That could be a problem.
We'll need to run more tests
on the lung tissue
as soon as it gets here.
Where is it now?
In a temperature-controlled
container.
Our courier
is hand-carrying it
onto the flight
right as we speak.
The plane is on its way
from Moscow to New York.
And you're confident
this courier
is capable
of seeing this through?
Alex can be trusted.
You think we'll be getting
off the ground on time?
We're running
right on schedule, sir.
You sure you don't want
to check your suitcase?
I can take it here.
It will be waiting for you--
No, I'm fine.
Do you speak English?
Yes, some.
Um, Flight 38
to New York.
Boarding
is almost completed.
The flight is closing.
We just need to see
if our friend, uh,
Alex is on board.
You understand
I am not allowed
to give out
that information.
Please,
it's very important.
We just need to know
if he got on the plane.
I'm sorry.
Are there still seats?
A minute.
What are you doing?
The flight's boarded.
If we wanna stop
the courier,
then we have
to get on the plane.
If we let that courier
deliver the virus to Sophia,
she'll use it against us.
You saw what that virus does.
- Yeah.
- I don't wanna be stuck
on a plane with a WMD
for 11 hours.
Then don't come with me.
I do have tickets
available,
but the flight is closing.
- Okay, one ticket, please.
- Passport, please.
Make that two.
And don't look
so damn surprised.
Hold on, wait!
Take your seats.
We're leaving now.
Thank you.
I got
the passenger manifest.
And?
There's no "Alex" on board.
I checked first
and last names.
Nothing's even close.
Look.
So "Alex"
is either a nickname,
or the courier's
not on the flight.
But either way,
we're screwed.
Do you see
this empty seat up here?
I've been watching
the guy sitting in it.
He's acting real weird.
He keeps looking around.
And don't make it obvious
you're looking,
but he's on his way back
from the bathroom.
Who brings their carry-on
to the bathroom?
You think
the infected tissue's in it?
It's the right size.
And he never lets it
out of his sight.
It's suspect, but--
but we can't be sure
it's him.
Yeah, but we can't do--
we can't do nothing, either.
Blake.
How is he?
It's not good.
He slipped into a coma
after the surgery.
The doctors don't know
what triggered it.
But they said if he doesn't
come out of it soon...
No, come on,
don't even think like that.
This stroke,
it just...
Came out of nowhere.
I keep thinking
it must've been
because of the stress
he's been under.
I should've done something
to make him
try and deal with it.
Christina,
this isn't your fault.
Nothing you did
could've helped him.
What do you mean
by that?
Nothing.
What do you know?
Look, I just mean
Elias would be heartbroken
if he thought you were taking
this out on yourself.
I'm sorry.
I know you, Blake.
There's something
you're hiding from me,
isn't there?
Blake.
I'm sorry.
- I need to know.
- I'm sorry.
You're mistaken.
Martinez will never recover
from his coma.
The compound has already slowed
his brain function.
Soon it will stop them
altogether.
How much time
does he have?
That depends on
how much he's ingested.
Later today or tomorrow.
No longer than that.
Dr. Lu.
I hope
I'm not interrupting.
Not at all.
Dr. Lu was just assuring me
that the crisis
surrounding Martinez
will be over soon.
Thank you.
Of course.
I came as soon as
I got your message.
What's wrong?
Do you know
what scares me the most?
No. What?
The letting go...
of who I used to be.
I knew that
it would be painful
to follow through
on Thomas' plan,
that in order to make room
for our people here
to ensure their survival,
I would have to...
Sacrifice some
of my principles.
Well, you've taken
a huge burden
on your shoulders,
Sophia.
But that doesn't make
what needs to happen next
any easier.
That's the reason
I've asked you here.
This morning
Simon attacked Carlos
in the infirmary,
and he nearly escaped.
We need to move him
to a more secure location.
No.
I was hoping that Simon
would soften his views,
that we'd be able to welcome him
back into the fold,
but it's clear to me now
that that will never happen.
He needs
to be taken care of.
You want him killed?
He would've turned us in
to the authorities.
Can you imagine
what they would do to us now?
Will you help me?
- Why me?
- You've always been loyal.
Michael,
you've been able to--
to set aside your--
your attachments.
My attachments.
You've never let your feelings
about your family
get in the way
of what needs to be done.
You will do this for me.
Yes.
- Oh! I'm so sorry!
- What are you doing?
I'm so sorry.
Let me get you a napkin.
No, I'm fine,
I'm fine.
We got the wrong guy.
It's coke.
- Is everything all right?
- Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, everything's fine.
We're out of moves, Sean.
We don't know
who the courier is
or if he's even
on this plane.
The courier
is on this plane.
We have to assume that.
- Or what?
- Or Sophia gets the virus,
and then there's
no hope for anybody.
We have to let
the authorities know
that there's a WMD
on this flight.
How?
You worked for the CIA.
You have to know someone
we can get word to, right?
Say I do.
Think about
what's gonna happen.
Well, they divert the plane,
land, and quarantine it
until they find the courier
and what he's carrying.
What happens to us?
As soon as the courier
figures out what's going on,
he could release the virus,
infect this entire plane,
before or after we land.
Do you wanna die
like that?
At least the virus
would be contained.
Now are you gonna tell me
who I can get this message to
or not?
I know someone
at Homeland.
Thank you.
Look, I know--
I know it's taken me
a while to stop...
being surprised
you're willing to help me...
of your own free will
and--and for me
to realize that
you're doing this,
at least in part,
because of me.
It was just hard
for me to believe.
And why is that?
Because of...
You understand.
Because of who you are.
- Who am I, Sean?
- You know what I mean.
No. No, I don't.
Why don't you tell me.
When I first met you,
I was your target.
I watched you kill people.
- And now you've done the same.
- No, it's not.
It's not the same.
Look, this isn't
where I meant for this to go.
I was trying to thank...
Oh, forget it, Sean.
And don't
flatter yourself, okay?
You're just
a means to an end.
I'm doing this
to protect my family,
the people that I love.
Now give me the laptop.
I'll email my contact.
I found
a place to bury Luis.
About a mile
into the woods.
The ground is soft.
No trails.
And no one saw you?
- I was careful.
- All right.
We'll wait
until tonight, then.
I'll be back.
We can bury Luis,
but what are you gonna do
with everyone else?
How many innocent people
does Sophia plan
on killing?
I mean, is there gonna be
anyone left?
Leila, not now.
You don't wanna talk
about this,
because you know
that it's wrong.
Our people
have nowhere to go.
So it's okay
to commit mass murder.
I don't like doing
what we have to do
any more than you do,
but it's us or them.
Now I have to go.
When I was a kid,
I was playing with the boys
across the street,
and they killed a bird.
I told you what happened,
and you said
we were the strongest
and smartest things
on the planet,
so we had
a responsibility
to protect
the smaller, weaker things,
because if we didn't do it,
then no one else would,
that it was
the right thing to do.
I don't know
if you remember that,
but I do.
And I'm looking at you,
and I don't recognize
that person anymore.
Sir?
Dr. Narducci, come in.
I have the preliminary results
of the analysis you requested.
I've kept it quiet
just like you asked.
Close the door, please.
The sample
on the shirt you gave me
contained coffee
and sucralose,
which is a very common
sugar substitute.
But I also found traces
of an unknown biocatalyst.
A biocatalyst?
It's not something
naturally occurring.
It was synthesized,
which is strange,
because as far as I know,
we don't even have
the science to create it.
I'm sorry, but I don't have
a better explanation.
I think I do.
Blake, what is it?
We need to talk.
Can it wait
until tomorrow?
I don't think what happened
to the President
was an accident.
Not an accident?
Well, he had a stroke.
Never felt right to me.
Well, I know it's hard
to accept tragedy
when it strikes
out of the blue like that...
I knew things
just weren't as they seemed.
I knew it in my bones.
So I thought I'd get
a sample of the coffee
the President was drinking
that morning
and have it tested.
- A sample.
- Yes.
Some of it spilled
on my clothes.
So you really
do suspect foul play.
There was foul play.
The lab found traces
of an unknown compound.
Well, you should've come
to me with this.
I'm telling you now.
I have reason to believe
the compound came
from Sophia's people.
Is that right.
And once I realized
Sophia was involved...
It all finally
made sense to me.
Meaning...
What?
Meaning you're
not capable
of doing something like this
alone, Raymond.
How--
how dare you
accuse me of being--
I know you poisoned
the President.
I know you're working
with Sophia.
Well, that's preposterous!
Now, you listen to me!
You listen! I don't know
what she promised you
to do what you did,
but she's lying.
The only reason she helped you
get where you are...
Blake, remember
who you're talking to!
Is because she knew
it would give her control
of this office.
You're a pawn, ray.
Her puppet.
That's enough!
Look...
I know you care
about this country...
but trusting Sophia
will only lead to more death
and destruction.
So whatever you're doing,
I'm begging you...
Put an end to it now.
Before it's too late.
Your accusations
are outrageous
and completely baseless.
This is where you and I
part ways.
Your services
are no longer required.
You may tender your resignation
effective immediately.
You're done.
Look.
Ladies and gentlemen,
just to inform you,
we are currently
under military escort.
There is no reason
to be alarmed.
Our flight
is being redirected
to Andrews Air Force Base
in Maryland
only as a safety precaution.
At this time, we ask
that you remain in your seats
with your seatbelts
fastened.
Thank you.
It worked.
Now would be the time
for this guy to make his move.
Sir, please,
you must remain in your seat.
No, I want my wife
next to me.
We were given
separate seats,
but there's no way
I'm staying here
with her up there.
All right.
I'll see what I can do.
- Sophia, we have a problem.
- What?
Our courier
just emailed me.
The plane now
has a U.S. military escort.
Someone told the authorities
there's a WMD on board.
How? Who would know?
Is it possible someone
saw you hand off the case?
- No.
- This could jeopardize
everything that
we've been working towards.
What if we use the virus?
Once they force
the plane to land,
we can expose
everyone on board to it...
No.
No, given what happened
on board the boat,
we now know that
they'd all die immediately.
There wouldn't be time enough
for the virus to spread
as far as we need it to.
So what do we do?
I know that you
and Director Sterling
have grown close.
And as you've
been made aware,
I was forced
to dismiss him.
For insubordination,
no less.
Yes, I heard.
He made some
outrageous allegations,
preposterous allegations
that were absolutely
inexcusable.
Now, I don't know
if he, uh,
shared any
of these notions with you,
but, uh--
but I would never want you
to be swayed
by hearsay.
The man obviously buckled
under the pressure
and stress of his job.
And if you ever felt
as burdened
as Blake must've been...
Please know
that you can come to me.
And...
Understood,
Mr. President.
Thank you.
Hello?
Mr. President,
it's Sophia.
Sophia,
it's good you called,
but I would prefer you use
the formal, diplomatic channels
that we now have
at our disposal.
U.S. fighter jets
are currently escorting
Aero Moscow Flight 38
bound for New York.
I'd like you
to order them
to release their hold
on that plane immediately.
- What?
- You heard me.
Release the plane.
Well, I need to know
what the situation is.
I need to understand
the circumstances.
You don't need
to understand anything.
Just do it.
Sophia,
we have an agreement
based on, uh,
cooperation and trust.
And right now,
you're exhibiting neither.
Look out your window,
Raymond.
Why?
Look at what's left
of the Washington Monument.
Sophia, please.
Call off
those F-16s now,
or I will take action
against your people again
and I will tell
the whole world
about the role you played
in taking down
your predecessor.
Sophia. Sophia!
They're leaving.
Ladies and gentlemen,
this is your Captain speaking.
I am happy to report
that the security threat
was proved non-credible,
and the jets flanking
the plane have been called off.
Why would they call them off
before we landed?
I thought your contact
at Homeland was credible.
He is.
Don't you get it?
Sophia must have somebody
on the inside too.
Somebody who intervened
to make sure
that that infected tissue
got off this plane.
Passports, please.
The courier must be
around here somewhere.
Sean, we have
to face the idea
that we might not find him.
- No, we don't.
- So...
- Not yet.
- What do you say, Alexandra?
You want to split a cab?
Sorry, my boyfriend
is picking me up.
- Alexandra.
- That's our flight attendant.
That's why the name
wasn't on the manifest.
- Look.
- Get back in line.
You're not going anywhere
till you have your bags
searched first.
Go.
Director Sterling
has been escorted
out of the White House.
Sir?
You wanted me
to let you know
Director Sterling is gone.
Fine.
That's good.
Thank you.
Michael,
what are you doing here?
Sophia wants me
to take care of things.
You should wait outside.
Well, I don't think
that's a good idea.
Go now.
So Sophia sent you to do
her dirty work for her, huh?
You're going to have
to face up to what you're doing,
Michael, to me
and the billions of people
Sophia will ask you to kill.
Michael.
We gotta get you
out of here.
Give me a hand
with the body.
Sophia must've used
some kind of poison on Martinez.
Do you know of any way
we can help him?
The scientist
who created the poison--
Dr. Lu--is on site.
I'll see what I can do.
You go get Leila.
I'll meet you in the woods
on the northwest side
of the development.
- Go. I got this.
- Okay.
Sean!
Go, go!
Drop it!
Drop it
or I'll kill him!
Don't worry about me!
Take the shot.
Put it down
or he's dead.
Don't worry about me!
Shoot him!
Drop the gun!
You can't let him
take the case!
Drop it! Drop it now!
Vicky, shoot him!
Don't let them take the case!
- I'll kill him.
- Vicky.
I'll kill him!
- Take the shot!
- Drop the gun!
Vicky, please. You can't
let them have the virus.
Down or I'll pull
the trigger!
Vicky!
No!
What are you doing?
Kick it away!
Let's go! Let's go!
Why didn't you
take the shot?
They're getting away.
Come on.
Come on, come on!
Michael? Carlos?
I'm good, I'm good, I'm good.
I'm good. Just go, just go!
Michael and Simon are gone.
Lock down the perimeter.
We have to find them
before they escape.
Where's my dad?
He said
he'd meet us here.
We can't wait
much longer.
- Dad!
- Oh, sweetheart.
Okay, the perimeter fence
is straight ahead,
about 50 yards
through those trees.
All right.
Let's go.
Get down!
Go! To the left!
Dad!
No, no!
Leila, Leila...
- No, dad.
- Oh, baby.
Dad, you're gonna--
you're gonna be fine.
There's a vial
in my pocket.
I forced Dr. Lu
to give me the vial.
Get it to the President
as soon as you can.
- Dad, you're gonna be okay.
- Go, Leila.
Just go.
Go! Go.
Leila, we gotta go.
- No, I'm not leaving him.
- Gotta go, Leila. Go.
No. I'm not leaving.
He needs help.
Leila...
Go! Take the vial
to the President.
Go.
You're gonna be okay.
Keep looking.
I'm so sorry, baby.
I love you.
I love...
Dad! No, don't go, please!
Don't move!
Dad! Dad!
Leila, Leila.
No, dad!
Come on.
You did this.
You killed him.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org